README.md, before:

# BTC RPC Explorer

Simple, database-free Bitcoin blockchain explorer, via RPC. Built with Node.js, express, bootstrap-v4.

This tool is intended to be a simple, self-hosted explorer for the Bitcoin blockchain, driven by RPC calls to your own bitcoind node. This tool is easy to run but currently lacks features compared to database-backed explorers.

I built this tool because I wanted to use it myself. Whatever reasons one might have for running a full node (trustlessness, technical curiosity, supporting the network, etc) it's helpful to appreciate the "fullness" of your node. With this explorer, you can not only explore the blockchain (in the traditional sense of the term "explorer"), but also explore the functional capabilities of your own node.

Live demos are available at:

* BTC: https://btc.chaintools.io
* LTC: https://ltc.chaintools.io

# Features

* Browse blocks
* View block details
* View transaction details, with navigation "backward" via spent transaction outputs
* View JSON content used to generate most pages
* Search supports transactions, blocks, addresses (including bech32)
* Mempool summary, with fee, size, and age breakdowns
* RPC command browser and terminal
* Currently supports BTC, LTC (support for any Bitcoin-RPC-protocol-compliant coin can be added easily)

# Getting started

The below instructions are geared toward BTC, but can be adapted easily to other coins.

## Prerequisites

1. Install and run a full, archiving node - [instructions](https://bitcoin.org/en/full-node). Ensure that your bitcoin node has full transaction indexing enabled (`txindex=1`) and the RPC server enabled (`server=1`).
2. Synchronize your node with the Bitcoin network.
3. "Recent" version of Node.js (8+ recommended).

## Instructions

1. Clone this repo
2. `npm install`
3. `npm run build`
4. Edit the "rpc" settings in [credentials.js](app/credentials.js) to target your node
5. Optional: Change the "coin" value in [config.js](app/config.js). Currently supported values are "BTC" and "LTC".
6. Optional: Add an ipstack.com API access key to [credentials.js](app/credentials.js). Doing so will add a map to the /peers page.
7. `npm start` to start the local server
8. Visit http://127.0.0.1:3002/

## Run via Docker

1. `docker build -t btc-rpc-explorer .`
2. `docker run -p 3002:3002 -it btc-rpc-explorer`

# Donate

Any support for continued development of this tool is appreciated!

* [Bitcoin](bitcoin:3NPGpNyLLmVKCEcuipBs7G4KpQJoJXjDGe): 3NPGpNyLLmVKCEcuipBs7G4KpQJoJXjDGe

![Bitcoin Donation QR Code](/public/img/qr-btc.png)

* [Litecoin](litecoin:ME4pXiXuWfEi1ANBDo9irUJVcZBhsTx14i): ME4pXiXuWfEi1ANBDo9irUJVcZBhsTx14i

![Litecoin Donation QR Code](/public/img/qr-ltc.png)

Commit message:

Adjust README to mention environment variables

README.md, after:

# BTC RPC Explorer

Simple, database-free Bitcoin blockchain explorer, via RPC. Built with Node.js, express, bootstrap-v4.

This tool is intended to be a simple, self-hosted explorer for the Bitcoin blockchain, driven by RPC calls to your own bitcoind node. This tool is easy to run but currently lacks features compared to database-backed explorers.

I built this tool because I wanted to use it myself. Whatever reasons one might have for running a full node (trustlessness, technical curiosity, supporting the network, etc) it's helpful to appreciate the "fullness" of your node. With this explorer, you can not only explore the blockchain (in the traditional sense of the term "explorer"), but also explore the functional capabilities of your own node.

Live demos are available at:

* BTC: https://btc.chaintools.io
* LTC: https://ltc.chaintools.io

# Features

* Browse blocks
* View block details
* View transaction details, with navigation "backward" via spent transaction outputs
* View JSON content used to generate most pages
* Search supports transactions, blocks, addresses (including bech32)
* Mempool summary, with fee, size, and age breakdowns
* RPC command browser and terminal
* Currently supports BTC, LTC (support for any Bitcoin-RPC-protocol-compliant coin can be added easily)

# Getting started

The below instructions are geared toward BTC, but can be adapted easily to other coins.

## Prerequisites

1. Install and run a full, archiving node - [instructions](https://bitcoin.org/en/full-node). Ensure that your bitcoin node has full transaction indexing enabled (`txindex=1`) and the RPC server enabled (`server=1`).
2. Synchronize your node with the Bitcoin network.
3. "Recent" version of Node.js (8+ recommended).

## Instructions

1. Clone this repo
2. `npm install`
3. `npm run build`
4. Edit the environment variables of the server to set the proper "rpc" credentials to target your node. See [configuration](#configuration)
5. Optional: Change the "coin" value in [config.js](app/config.js). Currently supported values are "BTC" and "LTC".
6. Optional: Add an ipstack.com API access key to the [environment variables](#environment-variables). Doing so will add a map to the /peers page.
7. `npm start` to start the local server
8. Visit http://127.0.0.1:3002/

### Configuration
Some parameters have to be set as environment variables in the server. Alternatively, you can create a `.env` file in the root directory with such parameters and the software will take them from there.

#### Environment variables:
```
BTCEXP_RPC_HOST = localhost
BTCEXP_RPC_PORT = 8332
BTCEXP_RPC_USERNAME = username
BTCEXP_RPC_PASSWORD = password
BTCEXP_IPSTACK_KEY = 0000aaaafffffgggggg
BTCEXP_COOKIEPASSWORD = 0x000000000019d6689c085ae165831e934ff763ae46a2a6c172b3f1b60a8ce26f
```
If you omit one parameter, a default value will be considered.

## Run via Docker

1. `docker build -t btc-rpc-explorer .`
2. `docker run -p 3002:3002 -it btc-rpc-explorer`

# Donate

Any support for continued development of this tool is appreciated!

* [Bitcoin](bitcoin:3NPGpNyLLmVKCEcuipBs7G4KpQJoJXjDGe): 3NPGpNyLLmVKCEcuipBs7G4KpQJoJXjDGe

![Bitcoin Donation QR Code](/public/img/qr-btc.png)

* [Litecoin](litecoin:ME4pXiXuWfEi1ANBDo9irUJVcZBhsTx14i): ME4pXiXuWfEi1ANBDo9irUJVcZBhsTx14i

![Litecoin Donation QR Code](/public/img/qr-ltc.png)
